All
right, it's time to bring to order hand
overland versus commission meeting for
June 2nd,
2025. Roll call should do that.
Yeah, Matthew.
regular members for a second.
I don't think you can't actually see
incident. We have five members. It's
very very rare.
Oh, it's in the summer. I
have I don't see any additions or
changes in the order to the agenda since
there really is no agenda except
for
well what the approval minutes of
uh April
7 regular meeting minutes uh
Anybody find anything right?
The only thing I just want to say I said
to Joe, I know um Hank was talking about
conservation stuff. So I didn't know if
we wanted to add you guys want to add
anything for it or leave them or just
because I couldn't hear anything on the
recording after, but it's up to you
guys.
Oh. Oh.
So did he want to send you something? I
I haven't talked to him. I don't know if
anybody wants to add anything.
No. Well, he's the consultant.
Okay. Are we leaving him? I'll second
it.
I don't know. Did you want to What? It
was What was he saying? He was
incomprehensible or something. I could
Yeah, because of the bar. I couldn't
hear like I knew Hank was talking. I
couldn't hear a single word. But want to
say.
So there's not much written in that
part. So like if anybody wants to add
anything or any wants anything wasn't
anything that was pertaining to a case.
So it says discussion and review of
draft completion. I think
it works for me.
whatever just it bothered me.
I don't think it was what we're
all in favor.
So, we already went.
All
right. Okay. Let's get public comment.
Um, old
business, new
business, blank. Um,
did you have anything, Joe? No new uh
public view permit or
anything. It's got pretty quiet. Yeah. a
few things that like haven't been
submitted, people are talking about, but
nothing nothing big
sh more
information
yet. Okay. The review of the
bylaws. Sorry, I guess.
Oh, I I did read through them.
Um I have a few notes, but I don't start
my notes until like
uh the fourth chapter. Um is there
on the website? Uh no, they aren't
because they're draft. Um yeah, I could
see you should Yeah. So I can send it
to you just I mean were there m any
major changes?
Um the
only big one was the
um the uh town charter, the way
resations are handled changed. So I just
updated it to reflect that. And then the
rest of it was just me going through and
trying to reword some stuff that didn't
make sense. updating some of the links
and some of the, you know, like this the
Floyd thing we got here. Checking that
just yeah trying to make it more
useful
unnecessary word.
It was just it was a lot to read and and
that's why because our
um it's
uh like we're not supposed to the review
technically till next month. So
that's change them whatever you know.
Doesn't matter. But
the only thing that
was stood out to me um in one one the
last sentence of the second paragraph I
was a little unclear that in addition
the the commission may also be delegated
the responsibility of protecting other
water resources in the county or other
authorized
ordinances. I'm just kind of confused by
that.
I don't know. It was it was something
that was in the original one.
Yeah. So I think for maybe for
commissions with like aqua protection
areas or something we wouldn't have.
Yeah.
Do that.
So
um anything but I mean it might happen
in the
future legislation or something. I don't
know. I guess we don't need to put that
in there, but
yeah, it's also thing and it says other
water resources that talk about what the
initial water resources are and how
water surface water are under the
purview of the commission. So, it was
just kind of a it just struck me as a
little bit
odd to Yeah.
Yes. I don't miss Zoom meetings. So now
that you're in
person issues from computer,
yeah, when the transition happened,
that's really what happened, right? I
mean, what was the guy name that that's
the one
after he really liked, you know, but
when he was he talked and it was like,
yeah, you
don't have to do this, make it this way
if I was going to be the chairman.
And then even reading some of these
reading through the stuff. I have to
print it. I I can't read it on the
computer.
If you ever need to print it
too, but it's it's Yeah, it's very
intense on a computer. Yeah.
No computer.
Oh, is this it? Yeah. Yeah. You just go
section by. Do you want to look at it? I
have it. This is all right. This is it.
I guess I don't know. Are we gonna You
want to read it or do we want to just go
through itually and then just say that
looks all right. We don't need to change
that. Yeah, there was some things. Um I
was looking at the planning and zoning
ones. I think they're less descriptive
on the job description and stuff.
Um, so something you might want to like
specific like this personal
[Music]
um partly from around when we hired you
because it was unclear agent did when um
John Valenci or the former agent up and
left it was like last shot. Yeah. No,
it's kind of nice for
that. Tells you all the stuff that needs
to get
done, which should it should that should
be like in there some somewhere. I don't
know whether who does it or you know I
guess it's like what exactly can we
change? I mean, who do we answer to? I
don't know. I talked to
Carol clerk there, former former town
clerk, I guess, but she I don't know. I
was like, "Are there any requirements
for bylaws?" Like, is there like a
statuto? She's like, "No, not really up
to the commission." So, I think if you
have them, you're kind of bound by them.
Yeah. It should be it should be what you
want, you know.
All right. I'd like to look at section
four, the membership.
Yeah, that's what I don't have anything
started. Everything seemed normal to me
and made a lot of sense
until the thing the thing that I was
looking for is that I
think I didn't see anything it talked
about
we volunteer every two years. You know,
I remember two years ago in July, who
doesn't want to be on the wetlands? And
we did. And so everybody's name got
nominated to the board of selectmen. And
that was that. I didn't see anything on
that here. And I was wondering if we
were intentionally going to everybody's
a member until you die or resign.
I still don't know how I'm on that
committee. I mean,
I've never been elected or up to here.
Yep.
It should be an appointment. And I think
all of our
[Music]
terms expire soon if they haven't
already. Probably like
June. June 30th. Yeah. And
so we can just assume that everybody
wants to be here again because nobody
resigned. And but there still has to be
an appointment letter I think go to the
board of selectment and then they
approve us all or or not. You can Yeah.
Well,
is that in the town charter like doing
it all at once like that? I know. Well,
okay. Planning and zoning. I know we
tried to stag that you know
that so and I know right now yeah we got
you clean slate so everybody could leave
it once if they wanted but you could do
that with resignations too. I just I
didn't see anything in here about how
that
was going to work. You can see that's
elected. What's that? Is KY elected?
Yes. Okay. That's a little different.
And it's elected for a four-year term.
And I know here we're doing two year. I
can't remember if that's always been
that way or that's just what we did last
time. I think that might be in that
ordinance, the town or there's a lot in
that
They're all different.
And if you wanted to read it on paper,
I think I the lucky version. I don't
know.
I just had the
sugar here. I'm reading my notes, but I
can't see.
Oh, I mean I just I'm just gonna say
this when I was on it the other
committee with you the other
whatever I just got like nobody wanted
me to come anymore so I I just went
away so they were different this was
different than than now. Well, you have
to get elected.
Right.
As an elected
officials over unless you resign like
you have to get reelected to each.
So, I don't know if the ordinance agrees
with the town charter or vice versa, but
it says um I don't think it does matter.
Um, four years
started. Um, regular members shall serve
for two-year terms. Alternate shall
serve for threeear
terms. Clean up.
Well, you have to go
by the ordinance or the town chart. I
don't know which I'll supersede average.
I guess I'm unfamiliar.
Would there be a change to ordinance
about the board?
We should put in there what we're going
to do. You know, if we're going to do
something, then write it in the Bible as
what we're going to do. And that's Yeah.
Then it gets submitted and Right. and
they would vote on it or
we Okay. Okay.
So, the bylaws are basically just like
our agreement for how the group is going
to
conduct. We write them, we change them,
we vote them, but nobody else is saying
it. It's just kind of internal how
things were done. Hopefully they settle
a dispute if someone you
know
this wetland is a little weird because
it's from a state
statute but yeah I don't know what the
town says at this point versus the
ordinance the membership section
ordinance. Yeah. Yeah. The town
ordinance. So, so the state statute
basically says each town can establish
their own commission and some towns
they're combined. BNC and wetlands are
combined. Others like conservation
wetlands are combined. A town might have
three combined. Um so then ripped that
state law and said, "Okay, we're passing
this ordinance that says we're going to
start a wetlands commission and here's
going to be discharge." kind of flushed
out the plan for the commission. Um I
don't know if it was a town charter
probably at the time the ordinance was
passed but I don't think we always
remember the reference ordinances and
vice versa. Um so it may not be the same
in the town charter at this
point at the end of the day.
That makes it sound like in section one
shouldn't just reference the Connecticut
general statutes. We should also
reference the ordinance, right? like the
ordinance created the commission in the
town of
Andover ordinance is important because
it does um define as well like we have a
conservation
commission there's an ordinance related
to that
um but it does kind of spell out what
wetlands look like in handover
finger at that point. Um, regardless of
all that, if you wanted to add in the
real quick, every
June members will, you know, confirm in
writing their intention to serve as a
select or something like that. Doesn't
even have to be confirmed in writing.
Confirm, you know, you want to continue
on. Yep. Okay. Yeah. And then uh you
know Joe prepares the memo and and the
chair maybe signs it. I don't know how
goes to the board of selectment just so
they know and they do their official
appointment of the people. But you know
I think our appointments have to be
confirmed by the board of select.
So you're picturing something that ends
up in minutes like well you know could
be could be just a little memo that gets
sent here to the board to select the
meeting and and then they you vote to
approve it and uh that's that you
know there's a section on there general
like boards and commissions and I think
or appointments that I could get add Joe
a letter whatever it in that section
just so the minutes like you
So wetlands is under the further down
there in
that charter too.
Don't
miss
also. Okay,
awesome. Thanks,
Well, I
was reading the membership
uh chairs duties. The chair is notify
the major political authorities and
general
public
4.3. I'm thinking how am I going to do
that? Okay, so here's how that works.
You know, and it's
changed a little
bit recently. All of a sudden, we
actually tried to do what it says there.
But when there's a vacancy because
somebody resigns, the town clerk
notifies the uh the different you
Democrat and Republican committee and
they take charge of putting it on the
website and they'll put it in the river
east. They were looking for a vacancy.
So all that happens with no work for
you. So okay. So that I was thinking
what we should Okay. So I that's how you
have
to verify then that someone dying or
there's an opening or whatever. Yeah,
there's an opening. Yeah.
Okay. So that's that's I don't know
maybe we should just take that out of
there wherever it was that I well
and I think it's quoting the language of
the town is my
you could you could read that specific I
think it's good to be active with trying
to find people it's hard to get people
all be part of these commissions Right.
Requiring people to notify
everyone. I've never seen a board of
selected act to fill a vacancy. Yeah.
Yeah. We have so many.
Yeah. So, the opportunity is there.
Well, for
someone individuals.
Yeah. Like four four right there right
in the middle. A commissioner who wishes
to resign office must do so in writing
to town and bring forward the first
selection commission
chair
which I can tell you right now.
Yeah. But didn't we have that? Well,
wasn't there someone that
was we had listed and we hadn't seen
them in over a year? Well, and I think
that's why I think sometimes you have
disputes, you know, it's not always nice
people on commissions and so it may be
that there's a personal disagreement
between the chair and individual that
wants to step down. They don't ne want
to talk to each other. So, I think that
is addressing that.
So, we shouldn't like I'm I've still got
the stuff on this. It's like shouldn't
we just since we can Why don't we just
take that right out of there? Take what?
4.4.
Doesn't want to know.
Why would you want to take that out of
there? That's not We don't do it, right?
Well, how to get off it kind of
instructs you on how to leave the
commission. And would you rather someone
write you a letter so you would know
what was going on?
Well, now the thinking is you could fill
it quickly as opposed to the way.
Oh, I see. I see what you say. It's It's
not Yeah, it's more of an instruction.
Yeah, it's more structure, but it's
not if somebody resigns because they
just decide to leave the state for
whatever reason and they don't they just
leave or whatever. Then you're just
sitting there waiting. Yeah. I mean, I
would think you want to know, right?
Correct. Okay. All right. I see.
I guess I'm I'm following this a little
differently now. It's it's more of a
courtesy. Courtesy, correct?
as as opposed to just not showing up.
And that's what changed in the charter
is, you know, the board of selectmen
don't have to approve the the uh
resignation, you know, because they
can't say no, you
can't stay here. Yeah. So, you're
letting them know. And again, back uh on
what we just gone through with a couple
of our people, we didn't send it to the
board of selection. We just uh you know,
went to the down clerk. I got a copy. We
went out and got new people and and that
was it. And uh but I think it's just
like a job. If someone was going to
quit, you would want them to give a two
week notice versus
thing. Yeah. As a courtesy. Yeah. Okay.
I I got it. I guess I'm looking at it
from the wrong and then this way you
know and you need to replace and it's
that's what gets the ball rolling for
the down clerk to uh you know notify the
political parties and get the ads in the
newspaper.
What was your concern? Well, it just
seemed like that was something that uh
what I remembered when we had our last
one of our votes. We had a referendum
type vote and one of the things was
that we the if you wanted if you were on
like say the government's commission and
you wanted to resign you didn't even
have to write a letter to the to the
select
committee. It's like we voted that down.
We used to like it was mandatory. So
mandatory I guess. Well I don't think
you can make selectman had to vote to
accept the resignation.
They had no choice if we that's been
wetland permit coming in. Do we vote to
accept it or it's kind of near the clock
starts and off we go. So, um, but I
think that's just saying as a courtesy,
you know, notify.
Are you okay with them notification to
the town? Because it is a little bit
awkward the wording. I wasn't sure like
as the person resigning forwarding to
the
first to the clerk or forwarding that
the first chair. Yeah, maybe it should
just be the first time because that the
first I wonder if that's when they had
the different form of government and
have a manager
so the first time
so
maybe out of date
anyway
selection like the chair right I
I mean the town clerk is the one that
does it say somewhere else in the
universe like policy super laws what the
town would do if nation received
I don't know I don't know I was just
very happy with what I got you
know okay that worked out
must it still says
must do so would you rather say it's too
Yeah. What if it Well, it said you must.
No, but that's what I'm saying. What if
it changes? Yeah.
Maybe it's it's kind of like I think
that that we was what we were trying to
get away from. If somebody wants to
resign from a commission that they can
just resign. I mean, they could just
maybe give the town clerk a call or
something and just say or right in our
case it would be like hell Joe, you
know, I'm going to have to resign
whatever. But I'm sure there have been
people through the years that just stop
take a job in North Carolina.
That didn't happen.
That's not happening anytime soon. No,
it did.
Ed took a job. Yeah, but we saw we saw
his name on the thing and then like we
didn't know if he was coming or not cuz
he we talked about removing him from the
commission because he didn't show up
anymore and then he asked he's like you
might as well kick me off. So then we
didn't make a motion but then he was
still oh on the role you know like the
list for commissioner. So when you went
to get sworn in my recommendation I got
look we had to
it is one of the commissions that
but then I tried to contact him but he
didn't get back to me. So then they're
like well we can't take him off without
his letter. So I had to dig through the
town the ordinance.
You can't just keep somebody on
indefinitely. So it just it just delays
the process of Well, like pretty much
the next one does talk about that if
somebody misses two of the Yeah, that's
what we went off of when we're talking.
I can give another like awkward example
from a few years ago when I first
joined.
So the chairman had resigned quit I
don't know it was prior to my joining
but there was no official chairman so
there was always like the vice chair
acting as chair and then someone getting
nominated be vice chair and so that
individual who had been vice chair
acting as chair announced that he was
resigning did so and then a buddy on the
board was like no no we really need you
there so like the group had you know
planned for his resignation figured out
new officers and then he like came back
and I was like in charge now. And I was
like, well, you quit. Remember what you
think formal letter would help you? I
think so. It's kind of like hit that
send button too fast. You wish you
didn't have that set button on.
Yeah, that was very awkward. Yeah, I
remember that.
That's right. You remember the time?
Yeah.
I don't know. I still
I even though
it's I can see I looking at that 4.4 in
a different way. I still feel like
it's a commissioner who wishes to resign
from office must do so in writing to
town clerk with a forwarded copy to the
first
selected
and the weapons commission
chair. Is are we saying that he has to
write three letters? Well, I think we
were thinking like email. Yeah, went by
email. That's kind of like something
that I'm not I don't do. So, are you are
you anytime soon?
No, I'm
not just something about it. Well, and I
think it's because it's government like
you have to have some type of written
something to make it official. Yeah. How
many times you like you
said you don't you know okay whatever in
writing or via either verbal outburst
during Yeah. You know when I
did retire I only wrote one
letter to one person but boss you know
that was it. That was it. I got you. Uh
I wasn't writing letters to all these
people. Well, I mean you could say
should do it to the town clerk and then
the town clerk responsibility is to do
what they do. Yeah. We have that in our
page to dictate what another
that's
right. I'm thinking like forward resign.
I just send an email to you know the
town clerk and then just copy you with
personal it.
All right. So this
is the reason why the change. I get it.
Commissioner who wishes to resign from
the office must do so electronically to
the town clerk with a forward copy of
the first selection of the island
commission chair. So you know that
covers it that covers it by email or
whatever. And then if they don't want to
do that then the next one is
home writing and or electronically to
you
know so you know was your concern if
someone has to like seek you out to give
you something
is that your
thought or anything about I just it's I
I
don't I don't it's just uh it doesn't
have to be
handwritten. So, it's not
handwriting. No, I I wasn't taking it in
a personal way. I just thought it just
didn't seem right anymore since we got
rid of that as far as the select
concerned. Yeah. I mean, we voted that I
don't I I think the only thing we
changed in the charter that way was that
there's no longer a requirement for the
board of selectment to accept the
resignation. It's a notification. Okay,
that's so they're still notified. Okay,
but it's not like they have to vote to
accept the resignation because they got
no choice, you know, of the guy's going
to prove that it was it was just it's
just a a more formal notification
process. So maybe removing the word
wishes would be applicable. Like a
commissioner who resigns from office
should notify the town clerk in writing
with a copy to the first elect weapons
commission
office. They be forwarded is the word we
give with a copy to the first selecting
weapons chair with a cop.
I think our last time it was sugar.
I was trying to think about like some
kind of issue with that. Like if you
quit, you didn't do it in writing and
some application came up in
rejoin. I don't know. Oh, I was trying
to think like how like is there like a
scenario to make
it want they want because they don't
want it must instead of should you do
that otherwise you're still kind of
paper trail you decided
okay I see how that could backfire if
you know somebody decided not to. I
mean, they wanted to resign and then all
of a sudden, like I said, something came
up and then they say like, "Oh, I want
to be on that. I want to be on the
commission because I want to have some
say in what's going to happen in that
development or whatever it is that's
going
on and then jump back in
before or it's like unclear and then you
put a spot, but then they didn't or you
know, I don't know. Just trying to Okay,
I get it. things or argue bills
by the other way. I get there should be
some kind of legal docuation.
Well, it makes easier than they know
that like this here's a sheet that's
written by the person that so there's no
question.
Okay. made
fun we just we just need it makes sense
now it doesn't make sense before but it
doesn't I had a question on
5 next chapters so a lot of things the
chairman is responsible for which I'm
very interested
Here will have the duties normally
confirmed confirmed by Robert's rules
order on such officers and perform other
duties as written in these bylaws. The
chair will be responsible for a
preparing the agenda of regular special
meetings. Joe and I know I don't do
that.
those um because you're delegating it to
him if budget cut or something like
that.
Yeah, that would put this commission in
a real bind because I'm just
saying I I'm thinking about that because
I I have read this before but I remember
when I did read it I wasn't the chair.
So now I since I am a chairman I'm
reading this I'm going this chair I
don't want to be in a position to put
this commission in a pill because uh I'm
not able to do a lot of these things. I
don't really have the skills or the
tools to
do. That's not the revised version,
right? That's the version. No, that's
the the draft.
The
revised
revised, right? And you've changed. Is
that one different by Robert? It's It's
the same thing by usage, but
Now, one of the comments that I got back
from Mark Branch just having redone the
planning the zoning lines is the
Robert's rules of order were never
intended for
municipal boards in that. And so there's
some things and I don't know what those
things are that don't work for Roberts
board or for what we do. So, you know, I
think where we say you're conferred by
or you know, I thought there was a
comment later on that said we would do
the meetings if Robert's rule of order.
It would be there's a guide by Robert's
rule of order. That was one of the
things that Brand pointed out. You could
change just like the duty confer upon
such an officer.
general
then they don't know what duty they are
well like yeah the general expectations
of someone
I'm just looking at that I'm saying is
there any way we can rewrite that or add
some kind of a default um with somebody
that
in the odd position that I'm in, which
is the chairman. Uh, and I'm really
literally not plugged in on social
medias or any of these. I don't do any
of that. I mean, I use a phone, but I
don't that's it.
But yours are yours have the zoning aid
doing the agenda and stuff. So,
but he and I get together to go through
the agenda before it. So what it's
responsible for ensuring the
preparation and providing so
I was thinking preparing or reviewing
but
cover it. Yeah because you I mean that's
basically draft it and then you review
it. So,
right. But you need to make sure
whichever way is right. Oh,
okay. All right. I Yeah, that would be
better. That would be fine. I mean, for
me, I mean, for the commission, I'm more
concerned about the town than me. I
Well, also, it says responsible for,
right? It doesn't say will perform. Oh,
okay. Right. So, like it says the chair
will be responsible for. So it's like if
there if we got here today and there
wasn't an agenda, it would go back to
you. It would go back to you. But if you
delegated and you say, "Well, I
delegated it to Joe." Okay, Joe didn't
do it. But it's still it's like there's
a hierarchy. It's like, well, okay, Joe
didn't do it, but like you didn't
delegate to someone else when he didn't
put it out on time, right? If I haven't
heard from Joe, say by you tell me to do
it Thursday or something. It's like,
well, the meeting's Monday and I got
nerd from Joe, so I got to get on the
stick, right? It's my responsibility,
right? Or like say he had something that
took him away from these, right? But
then he has some avenue to go to, right?
Like he's then reaching out to you to
say, "Hey, I'm not going to be able to
repair it." Okay. You know, you're going
to need to do this or you need to
delegate to someone else. Yeah. Get
somebody else.
Yeah. Yep.
and just basically do an agenda
where you cancel the meeting.
Well, you have to have, you know, you
have to notice that too. You know, we we
have notifications that, you know, when
the meetings are going to be, people,
it's a public meeting. people could they
have the right to to show up. So, we
have an obligation to let them know in
sufficient
time what
we're
hours in there. I think it stayed that
in there somewhere, didn't it?
I don't know. I know I changed the
location within 24 hours in a panic mode
here. couldn't get the owl to work
and
but so I don't know the details on all
those things but there are different
notification requirements for each of
the different kinds of of meetings that
you do and uh and Joe make sure that all
those get done so you the things that
you're reading here on you do those I
mean you you provide notices of all
meetings to the commission members
including the alternates the relevant
town staff
Yeah. I don't see
C. That's what you're doing now. Okay.
You don't do
C. I do C.
I not trying to, you know, make fun of
it or anything, but it's just I I just
I'm not going to be able to do those
except I said either cancel the meeting
or get somebody else to do it if I
haven't heard from Joe. Okay. Yeah, I
think having that on
the rest of us could put agenda
together. Yeah, you put money. Yeah. I
mean, well, it's also too like say you
choose to step down at some point from
chair for those considering being chair,
it helps them to review like okay, this
is what I would be responsible for if I
assumed this position. So, they may want
to take more active role.
Right. Okay. So, yeah. So,
And there's an
expectation
that you know you're working together at
least at some some level. So you know
unless Joe waits till the last minute
all of a sudden he has a heart attack
you know normally
when when Tim went out of town
for we just get the agenda ready to go
at any time. So it's also, you know,
it's not like it sneaks off. We're gonna
have a meeting. The agenda is due today,
right? Yeah. Well, like I said, usually
by somewhere in the week, we you send
something out. We're going to have a
meeting. We don't have any new
applications, so we don't, you know,
blah blah blah. What do you want to do?
That kind of thing. And
yeah, normally Joe's got pretty good
lead time. I'm think he's not going to
be here on issue the agenda day. And if
you can figure out what you're going to
do. I've set it up the auto set. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, as as long as you
know, like responsible for making sure
the
meeting doesn't just get blown, you
know,
it's Joe takes care of those things. But
I if he can't, then I'll have to step.
Yeah. think to work with of you know
Lynn building part and stuff because we
have everything like I work on a shared
folder so she could go in there and
probably just I draft one like at the
beginning of the month I like make a new
agenda and something comes up I add to
it so it's like ongoing kind of
thing plus you could take it and you go
you guys share a little password and
stuff. Well, it's a shared folder, so
like anybody down there can get
Okay.
But I plan so if I do have a heart
attack so you can figure out what's
going on. I've got a heart attack. You
get hit by the pie truck or
something. You got to have what you
do. All right. An inheritance of a
family. There we go.
That's the lottery.
I think this number 53 is interesting.
The chair has can certify expend
expenditures of up to
$100 without private approval
commission.
I wonder why it sounds a dollar.
Yeah, expend for Yeah, standard like
usually I don't know has the line item
beyond like the agent position.
Um I think in the past it would have
been more for like printing and stuff
when we had to you know print of site
plans and things like that but usually
there's a
threshold assigned that the sheriff you
know is entrusted to make a good
decision up to that amount but higher
than that then it should be voted on but
if there's
no
budget then 530 is a little sketchy.
I think we have, right? Yeah, there's
some stuff that's like training. It's
not much.
Is it like $1,500 or $1,800? I didn't
think Well, it's broken up. So it might
be yeah,
but there is stuff like if somebody
wanted to go to training, you could you
could be like,
[Music]
"Yeah, like that cost is like $65 to go
to I could ask you, you would say, sure,
like you can go to
and then the next meeting like
especially if it's like times that say
you just found out about it and it's
this weekend, right? But we don't have
our meeting until you know the following
week, right? You could be executive
decision. Okay. Yeah. Go ahead. We spend
the money next meeting.
Somebody like it's not like you just
made that personal choice like the final
agreed upon. You can do that.
weapons. There you go.
It is all the way.
So, it's all the way. It's $200. This is
what there's a total of,400.
Yep. 14
[Music]
145 bucks.
So, I guess we shouldn't pump that
number.
Well, the where where that uh where you
would spend the money and we've done a
good job of not spending the money is
with attorney fees and and all that
comes down to planning and zoning budget
which I don't think is right but that's
the way it works and it hasn't been a
problem because we haven't spent it.
Well, the wetlands one. Yep. if you get
uh you
know grants to show up at a meeting or I
really try to I know you do. I
appreciate that.
Why is it Why is it planning doing it
that well? I I think it goes back to
when the initial professional services
line item got put in the budget. it was
just put there and there were so so
seldom used with the other whether it's
you the ZBA or in the wetlands it just
comes out of there if you need it you
guys
yeah that's like $300 a question
yeah brand gives us pretty good deal.
But uh is he's going to be around
where just stay the same which as long
as
I'm like you said the word responsible
makes a lot difference
doing I'm responsible getting done by
somebody
If it's in the chairperson's duty is to
prepare the agenda for every meeting
that be different. Okay.
Not not till
6. 62 I got something.
Oh, who is the land use building
department administrator?
That's uh that's Lynn building
department. Oh, okay. It actually said
building department administrative
assistant. And I was asking her I was
like who you assisting and just doing
here.
So I took the liberty of promoting her
to administrator.
Okay.
Well, this will lead to it. The other
thing we did just you know based on
comment by Brit is we crossed out the
words
um an employed position because each of
these positions could be
contracted. You know don't have to be a
town employee. They can be well they are
in a lot of towns right and so that's
why Grant said you ought to get rid of
those words because while it might be an
employee position today it doesn't have
to be that way if more and more towns
are going away from that. Yeah. Oh that
makes sense. Very good. Yeah because it
doesn't need to say that. Yeah. However
however the person gets paid shows up.
Yeah. Yeah.
So you're suggesting we strike that
probably in each occurrence. Yep. So I
think
I guess it's the heading is staff. So in
the board
clerk it says employee position too. It
doesn't necessarily have to be that way.
The wetland agent. It could be depending
on Yeah. and wetland regions could be
the
same. Joe, is it possible to share like
a mark of copy so it's clear like what
were the changes that are improving?
Yeah, I can look. I was trying to do
that and it was getting really
I did some compare.
Whatever. All right.
assist the commission with amendments to
regulations that requested by the chair.
There you
that I I just I I was trying to
visualize what I what that
is. I just I
don't I just can't picture myself doing
like I'll be
happy and I don't know where it's at in
the legislature but now that there is
something within the legislature that
would require all commissioners do this
state training. Um if that were to pass
then it might warrant like an update to
a wording of our level
regulations right now has at least one.
So on behalf of the commission we can
then direct Joe
to the changes to the regulations.
So, did you just say that they they're
talking about every every commission
member has to do that on
I don't know. I don't know if that's
okay. It doesn'tffect
and there was another one about air
b if that passes we'll be change
everything.
Yeah. Yeah. implications for like
clearing
vegetation. Yeah, I didn't see that.
Did
you training that program? It was like
four hours or something like that of I
can't Oh, was that all day thing? It was
all day. Was it
Barry and I? Yeah. Like 4:30 before then
just started like 9. Yeah. And is that
something? Okay. This the one that used
to be
That's not the one we're talking about.
No. Yeah. Same has like an online module
that you have to like go
through and stuff to kind of document
the progress.
That's pretty good. Yeah.
anything like you
know I don't know if they'll update it
respondition I can come down
here
so I mean I can read and
Right. I don't want to. Yeah, it's not
hard. That's not hard or anything. You
should have been all over demanding that
resignation in writing in. That's right.
Uh, no. It's Yeah, I'll be
fine. Just
uh don't have the tools.
here. Oh, that's what we're talking
about right now. The
training weapons agency comprehensive
training program. Oh, that's for the
agent. Yeah.
That's a different one.
Oh, that's it. Yeah. Okay. That's the
one you're talking about.
I was going to ask about that, but it's
just like the age has to take at least
one person.
Okay. And then they're changing it to
everybody.
Okay.
I have
to get paid
on
that. I don't think it's officially
required again.
bylaws right now. So I don't think we
really have to go next. We don't have to
do all this
again
review the
review and then I see about the officers
if anybody wants to change
jobs knows I'm always trying
to it's just I just think
you. I don't mind. I like being a
chairman. I'm proud of it. And
it's used to bother me a little bit. I
used to be like nervous and stuff. Now
I'm not and don't mind doing it. I just
don't think
I could get any better.
[Music]
No, I didn't mean
my forgetting things a lot more than
you're used to. It's
like no, I'm not.
So, uh, if anybody wants to move into
this spot, they're welcome to it
and I I will stay on as a
commissioner or an
alternate chair. So, anybody wants it?
Vice
chair. I had my first meeting.
Isn't that what happened last year?
Yeah,
actually. What were we gonna say? Oh,
but kind of back to Jeff's point. I
mean, would it make sense to like go
around the room and I don't have this
long spot, but like the idea of how do
we confirm people's
desire to, you know, stay on for another
term?
I guess I would say if you don't if you
don't want to stay on for another term,
email Joe. Let him know. Yeah. We're
showing up. Probably not.
Or Yeah. Well, it should be because if
it's if they're expiring
end of June, then next meeting Arizona
will go on commission. So, I guess yeah,
between now and the month, if you want
to get off, I guess you can email me
here, the town clerk, follow the
bylaw. So, you would do that before the
next meeting. I read it as the officers
though, which there's only two, not all
members of the commission. Well, it's
because of the term for the Yeah.
reappoint like the term for all the term
expires 30 June. So, you know, the first
of July, we got no permission. But
aren't some people three years? Like the
alternative? Well, that's when the town
charters go.
Um, and I think this was in the past.
The town charter may not say anything
about all things, in which case I would
go with what the organ says, but the
town charter says somewhere, which I it
used to have read completely
transparent. Um, I think it used to say
like serve two years. I think I think
the town charter is like the top
document. I think there's an issue.
See if we're just saying for the same
term. A little bit. Oh, sorry.
Yeah, there. See at the top.
Yeah, it's the one above that, right?
Five members two year twoear term. Yeah.
Yeah. No one's question five members.
Yeah. The the only question I had on
that it doesn't make a lot of difference
because should they be alternating and
to get started in that you'd have to
have some people with one year term so
that then they come back with two year
we could not have everybody Yeah. expire
at the same time.
think I feel like the ordinance said
it said three years when I reached out
to the town to confirm because I'm on
two other commission like when do all
these things expire um everything was
due of this year so I think they're
operating on a two-year cycle.
Um I don't any benefit to having
alternatives on for three years as
opposed to
if anything I would say the opposite
like alternates on for a shorter
termation than a regular member. But um
but we have the chairman one year,
right? But you're still appointed. So
you have a two-year appointment and so
say your first year you were chair even
if you stepped down or voted down you
know for the chair you could still be on
the commission the second year of your
term
and the way I read it it's also like um
when you're voted
on you're voted on and confirmed for
that year but then it's also like more
like a reaffirmation
Yeah. So,
it just helps like the officers position
if they're open. Yeah. Like regardless
of if you wanted to keep the position or
not. Mhm. Right. Like like say your
conversation like five minutes ago was
the opposite. You were like I love this
position. Don't take this from me. It
doesn't mean
that like by the first meeting next
month like you are no longer the
chairperson until it's all voted on.
Okay.
So, it gives you a chance to step down
if you wanted and it also gives the
larger commission a chance to vote
someone off. They've been doing a really
bad
job at it
or something want to move on, you know,
take a year off. Yeah. Somebody else
take Yeah. take three years. I like
exiting it at one year because I know we
talked about making it two years, but I
think it's good that if you have it at
one year
like say you take it and you don't care
for it, it's like this is I think that
was the thing that and for people that
were scared it was like a year.
I guess we'll see what happens next
meeting.
Unless we want to talk about
you unless you want to talk about it
now. Are there other elements or is this
this the whole commission? This is it.
So,
uh I would like to step down from being
the
chairman, but I definitely don't want to
step down from the
commission.
Anybody is interested in being
chair I'm talking to
I would appreciate I only I just really
think it's best for the commissioner
more than anything because like you know
I was even going to
say you don't even want to do the uh
dating meeting. You don't want to lead
the meeting. I could even step in and do
as a acting
chair. Say one day you come in. It's
like I'm just exhausted or whatever and
could you just do it? No problem. I'm
comfortable with it. I just I think all
these other
responsibilities we've been able to work
around, but if anything did happen, I it
would be it would be difficult for me
to I I know I can take responsibility
and make some phone calls and but even
then it's like a lot of times I'm not
around. I'm I'm retired and you know my
schedule is different than
I couldn't go
like it's like it's it's been happening.
You know, it happens more and more
because as you've been retired longer,
things seem to just get a little less
attached and you know and it might be a
good time
to do it now because I know it's
It's time for me. I could do a little
break. You could always step up to the
chair again.
Right. Try to get be
elected to the chair again.
Yeah.
I mean, but I I don't know.
It's not fair.
Not against the rules. As far as I read,
it's against my rules.
Think I recall the last time we had this
conversation four years ago. It might
have been against your wife's rules,
too.
What about you? What's your Well, I'm an
alternate. So unless you change me to a
regular member and somebody else wants
to become an alternate, I don't believe
I could be sure regardless.
Could you do that like a
non voting or non voting chair? If all
the other members showed up, I'm like
chairman but can't do it. Like it just
But can you even swap? Can you swap like
your alternate? Oh, yeah. with the terms
coming up, you could you could say um
you know, I'd like to be reappointed as
an
alternative. It's it's I mean, is that
an option for you or or no? Yes. Yes, it
is. It is. I I would be comfortable
being in an alternate. I still come to
meetings that my whole thing with
joining the inland wetlands commission
like five years ago was all I really
wanted to do is see what's going on out
there. That was my
condition and I was an
alter and I quickly
became the same. I think I started out
and the next thing we lost we lost you
and then we lost George and we were in a
fight and then you and I kind of it's
either you and me or
only been to like
two you do it and I'll I'll take the
computer stuff right because I was
comfortable with that. So that's kind of
what we did. But
bare minimum. Yeah. Right. It was pretty
So all chat just so
you're clear on before. So you'd be
allowed to participate in discussions
and stuff on um you know applications
and stuff before us, but you wouldn't if
there was five regular members at the
table like today. If you were all before
us, you wouldn't ultimately be able to
vote on it.
Yeah, that's that's I'm more interested
in what's going on, not that I can, you
know, I I you know, usually it's a
pretty clear vote. It's almost
always whatever we vote
on. So I don't think the voting is that
big of a
Yeah, I'm fine without
agree question for the rest.
Yeah, let's start there. We'll just All
right, start there. We'll do that.
department. I was like, who?
I was like, I was like, that's
I was wondering if like being chair
would benefit you career-wise in any
way.
Oh, potentially actually could pull it
over.
What are your thoughts? I am a little
uncomfortable like coming in and taking
over. Yeah, advice. Yeah, I was going to
say you could do
that. Share the advice. I can help you.
So I I you're like one person I think I
don't know as well but I work pretty
deep and my background like
monitoring so that's pretty easy for me
to set the role before it's professional
what I
do but yeah I'm happy to actually put my
name if I straight
yeah and no problem the meetings and you
know do whatever we do um as part
another, you know, board somewhere else.
And, you know, same thing with Robert.
So, I'm familiar with that. I'm just
still new to everything we're doing. So,
just trying to figure
out everything. So,
don't go anywhere.
Are you comfortable with what we've
been? Oh, for sure.
Well, never play. I have two little
kids, too. So, I'm kind of unpredictable
in that regard,
especially work for you.
For
me, my last day is chair.
I brought latte.
This is the second of June. Yeah, you
get you get to call the next meeting.
Mean the 1400.
It says
expenditures. I'm rolling up a $200
car.
Right. A candidate receiving a majority
vote from the commission members present
including alternates will be declared
elected and will serve for one
year beginning at the time of election.
So you're actually chair. So the
elections are completed in July. July.
So chair.
Okay. All right. Let's go
on
Were there changes um my knowledge that
first Monday of the month or
any Tuesday? Yeah. Were there any
Mondays that were moved like next month?
There's I think there was only one. Only
one year. Yeah.
We talk about July 1,
right?
Yeah. And the fourth is
Friday, right? Fourth Friday is
46. So we have it on July
7. We talked about that. I think that
complicated
in September. Yeah, we're meeting on
September 9th for the night because the
first is Labor Day.
Yeah.
I'm
sorry. All
right.
Well, can you go back up just a minute?
There's the Robert Fuels word. I can't
remember what it said about that.
Yeah, I would I would change the word
govern to guide.
know that because we're a municipality,
not supposed to follow that.
There's certain aspects that are not the
way we do it, and I don't know what
those are because I'm not that great on
the proper tools of order any, but
Parker had said change it. Okay, that's
interesting. But actually did not. He
said they were not uh they were not
prepared to address municipal meetings
or other meetings. Well, I think like
most people just take the like, you
know, make a motion
second, but I think it's there's like a
whole book.
There is. I don't know where the rest of
us at but because it depends on the size
of the the board too whether the chair
person can make a motion or not. So
we're under I forget how many people it
is seven people or say whatever you know
you can make a motion because we're
small versus like if you have a large
board
that makes sense but some people as
chairman really
like that makes sense.
just
all sounds.
Does anyone know
anyone? I get my viewer faster, but
Well, that's it. These bylaws may be
amended by
2/3 of the commission's entire voting
membership, including
all after the proposed changes have been
read and discussed at a previous regular
meeting. And that's what we're doing
today. Good job,
So, so 23
tech,
right? We we technically by that
192 even if we weren't really completely
ready
or if something came up like say
November like oh change or this
something or update this
okay change it you can still do it
that's what I was wondering yeah I was
reading that sounds like you could
actually do yeah one of those staff
people was you know rehired and their
job description not align with the
things we put in the
bylaws that
usually put anything. So my
understanding is that the
town cannot
It's not their job. But regardless of
work, it's not them taking minutes that
are submitted to them and posting online
that if the commission wants the minutes
posted online, they also who are
submitting them needs to also let
the tendants at this point the
administrator at the um know to folks
that it's not automatic. Do we want to
put anything in the file? Yeah, I sent
them to Carol. no longer care but town
clerk town and that they all get at the
same time. Yeah. Okay. Because
everything here just kind of says
website. Wonder if this was before we
had like a town website hosted. Maybe
that's I think the old ones did say
administrative assistant too. I think I
changed it one because it was that the
roles change.
So it was hard if you were like specific
just like someone should ensure that
they posted your
website. I don't I do a lot of the
posting at
all that
way at this
stage. I was going to say that about
time to start paying you.
Make a motion. We adjourn. Second. All
in favor. Hi.